So after updating, let's now also allow the current user
to basically delete his account.
Now when a user decides to delete his account,
we actually do not delete that document from the database.
But instead we actually just set the account to inactive.
So that the user might at some point in the future
reactivate the account and also so that we still
can basically access the account in the future,
even if officially, let's say it has been deleted.
Okay?
So to implement this, first of all
we need to create a new property in our schema.
So,
let's go there.
And now we want to have
a field called active.
Okay.
Which should be of the type
Boolean.
Okay, and by default
it's gonna be
true.
So any user that is created new
is of course an active user
and so the Boolean is set to true.
Also, we do not want to show this in the output, okay.
Because we basically want to hide
this implementation detail from the user.
Okay?
And so we don't want anyone to know
that this flag, so this active flag is here, okay.
So we say select, and set it to false, all right.
And so,
to delete the user now,
all we need to do is basically set
that active flag to false.
Okay.
So let's create that function here,
exports
.deleteMe,
so it was updateMe
and now it's deleteMe
and so we already know that we're using
a catchAsync here, right?
And then Async because we basically already know
that we're gonna update the user.
So request responds
next.
So, await
User.find
by ID and update.
Okay, and again, of course there's only works
for logged in users and so the user ID is
conveniently stored at request
.user.id.
and the data that we want to update
is simply active
and set it to false.
All right.
Now sending back the response is also pretty easy.
We use the 204 code
for deleted which will then make it so that actually
in Postman we do not even see this response, okay.
But we still send it along with the request
'cause that's always the best practice.
So, it's still a success
and then remember we don't send any data.
So, simply set it to no.
All right, and now of course add it
also to all routes here.
So that's pretty similar.
So deleteMe
then here deleteMe as well
and now actually we are using the delete http method.
Okay, and again, we will not actually delete
a user from the database.
But as long as the user is no longer accessible anywhere
then it's still okay to use this http method here.
All right, so let's try this out now.
Okay, even though we're not 100% ready yet
but let's still try this now.
All right,
so,
deleteMe
and it is a protected route
and so we need to be signed in
and so let's create our authorization header,
Bearer Token and of course this one
and that's actually it.
We don't need to pass any data in the body.
We don't need to pass any data in the URL.
All right, because again, the only data that is needed
is the current user ID and that one isn't coded
inside of our adjacent web token.
Okay?
So what we also need to do is delete
and yeah this should work now.
So before we do that let's actually get the list
of all the users.
All right and so the one that we are deleting now
is this last one.
So this one that we just created in the last lecture.
Okay, and we are working with this one
because it's the last one who logged in
and so it's this token here
which is right now stored in our token variable.
Okay, and so when we're now deleting the user
it will be based on the ID coming from this token.
So let's try that now.
And indeed we get our 204.
And now what I'm interested in is to see
if the select property here has changed.
And it actually looks exactly the same here.
And that's because we're not leaking
the select field to the user.
And so we actually need to see it here.
Okay and so indeed we have active here set to false.
Okay, so that's what I wanted to say before.
So we're not leaking the active fields
to the user, not the select field.
So active is only visible for us here
in compass but not for the user.
Now as a last step,
we then of course do not want to show up the
inactive users in this output, right.
And how do you think we could implement this?
Well we're gonna use something that is way back
that we talked about like two or three sections ago
which is query middleware, okay.
So query middleware is perfect for this
because now we can basically add a step
before any other query that we're doing then
somewhere in our application.
So let's go to our user model here
and add that middleware here.
So userSchema
.pre, so something that will happen
before a query and that query will be a find.
Okay, so this is what makes this query middleware.
Then a regular function
because remember that otherwise
we're not having access to the discord
or at least it won't have the value
that we expect it to have.
And remember that here we actually
used a regular expression before
basically to say that we want this middleware function
to apply to every query that starts with find.
So not just find but also stuff like find and update,
find and delete, and all queries like that.
Okay, and so we use a regular expression
looking for words or strings that start with find.
So that's what this symbol here does.
And then end the regular expression.
So a very simple one.
This is the one that even I can write
without going to Google first
and try to find it there.
Okay, so remember this is query middleware
and so therefore this points to the current
query.
Okay, and so let's just quickly go back here
to see how it works.
So we have our get all users here
and here of course we have a find query.
And now before that query is actually executed
we want to add something to it.
Which is that we only want to find documents
which have the active property set to true.
All right, so that's easy.
Here it is.
And so
this
.find
and then of course our filter object
only documents with active set to true.
And that's it.
Calling the next middleware and we're done.
Okay, and so if we now do the same query
then this last one should no longer show up
because again it has active set to false.
And so it's not going to match the query
that we just wrote.
Okay, now we don't get any users here
and I guess that's because the other ones
they do not have explicitly
the active property set to true.
And so let's do what we actually did in that other section
where we say that active should not be false.
Okay,
so we use the not equal to
operator and that of course should be in it's own object.
So not equal to false.
Okay, so that is quite different here in this case.
All right, so all documents where active
is not equal to false should now show up
and so the other two should now be back.
And indeed here they are.
Okay and so this is how we basically delete our users
while effectively not deleting them from the database.
Okay, so we're not deleting documents
we're only marking them as inactive.
Okay, let's just quickly save this here.
Delete
current user.
Great and with this we actually finished
the authentication and authorization part
of this section.
So everything that was related to these topics
and also to to users like updating and deleting users.
That's also kind of a part of authentication
and authorization.
Now in the rest of this section,
we're gonna talk about security
because of course that's also kind of related
to authentication.
Okay, so we're gonna talk about a couple of
best practices and then also implement
some of them into our project.